# Project-1
ABSTRACT

This project addresses the critical need for early detection of breast cancer (BC), the second leading cause of death among women. Recognizing the significance of early diagnosis in improving prognosis, this study introduces an automated BC detection system employing a diverse ensemble of machine learning classifiers. Investigating various ML algorithms and ensemble techniques, including Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), the study evaluates their efficacy using benchmark datasets. Demonstrating superior performance, the ensemble method achieved high accuracy, surpassing existing methods. The proposed system holds immense promise for the medical industry, offering a highly accurate, efficient tool for BC diagnosis and prognosis, crucial for improving patient care and outcomes. 

1 INTRODUCTION
Breast cancer is one of the most dangerous and prevalent cancers among women, causing the deaths of large numbers of women worldwide. Breast cancer accounts for 8.4% of diagnosed cancers and 6.6% of cancer-related deaths worldwide, according to a World Health Organization (WHO) report [1]. Breast cancer accounted for 15.9% of all reported cancers among Saudi citizens and 28.7% of all reported cancers among women of all ages, according to the Saudi Health Council [2]. Breast cancer is more common in women with dense breasts, and there is a relationship between density and age, with younger women having denser breasts than older women [3]. The American College of Radiology developed the Breast Imaging Data and Reporting System (BI-RADS). Table 1 presents the four BI-RADS assessment categories. Despite recent developments in computer vision, screening mammography is still read and interpreted manually under the supervision of a radiologist. However, the enormous number of screening images is difficult for radiologists to handle accurately Recently, medical imaging researchers have used stateof-the-art techniques to solve problems with breast cancer analysis [4]. Several research has been carried out on the automatic identification of breast cancer. According to the World Health Organization, BC is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in women, accounting for approximately one in four newly diagnosed cancer cases. According to the World Cancer Research Fund International, only 1.7 million new cases were reported in 2012 (WCRF). Despite its high incidence and even the absence of early signs [5], early identification of BC can considerably improve the chances of survival. According to the WCRF, patients identified with stage I/II BC have a five-year survival rate of 80-90 percent, while patients diagnosed with stage III/IV BC have a survival rate of only 24 percent. As a result, it is obvious that the proper classification of benign tumors is essential to encourage patients to seek appropriate therapy and obtain a better prognosis. As a result, considerable research in the diagnosis of BC focuses on accurately identifying individuals as malignant or benign. Many machine learning (ML) algorithms and neural network (NN) approaches have been used in the BC Wisconsin diagnostic and prognostic dataset. For the classification challenge, researchers have presented a large number of ML techniques in previous articles. We fully describe the various classification algorithms used to classify BC in this investigation. We mainly focus on artificial neural network (ANN) methods based on deep learning (DL), as well as support vector machines (SVM) based on traditional machine learning (ML) and k-nearest neighbor (KNN) and decision tree (DT) algorithms.
BC data has lots of varieties, open-source and private included. In the 1990s, a Wisconsin hospital collected three datasets, one of which was WBCD, which has strong representation and comparability due to having many algorithms applied to it. 94.36% to 99.90% is the range within which the classification accuracies of different algorithms are achieved. Developing different ML algorithms that are better improved is still needed to obtain alternative answers to complex BC data in the real world or other medical data, even though very high accuracies are achievable with a significant number of already existing algorithms. Though not the only criterion, classification accuracy is intuitive and especially important. The need for new algorithms to be developed to improve the existing techniques, considering that they still have drawbacks despite having their specific advantages. Accuracy in physicians’ decision-making is greatly aided by these algorithms once used to build healthcare systems that can provide second opinions.
